There's so many things out there.
You know, right now, in my opinion, it's a trade issue.
We just can't go the way we're going.
You know, we're the patsy for the world.
We're the last of the free traders out there.
I believe in the Gifford bill.
Boston Grove editorialized against it.
Maybe your paper did.
I don't know.
But I think we have to do something about it.
You know, when the time comes that in the EEC, the European Economic Council, what is the economy of Florida?
The economy of Florida is tourist and citrus.
And you can't ship a lemon or an orange or a grapefruit to all of Europe?
Well, that's protectionism, because they grow their own now in Spain and Portugal.
England has stanchions— So you're going to buy a lemon over there and it'll cost you four dollars.
England had a contract for a billion and a half dollars in stanchions.
Wouldn't let the United States bid on it.
Maybe we couldn't have been the low bidder.
And they talk of us, but we're looking for protection.
We've been a patchy for the world.
Unbelievable, the thing.
Talk about—let me just talk about one of the normal things.
Ninety-five percent of the baseball glove is made in America, not a national sport, and every kid has a baseball glove.
It's made in Japan.
Where the balls come from.
Well, the balls are an American contract that is being counted out in Haiti.
But the interesting thing about the bats, they don't allow—the Louisville bat is the only thing that's made in this country.
of the sport of baseball.
They don't allow them in Japan.
They use aluminum bats over there.
You know, you can get down there, you know, they subsidize goods and sell them here, they dump here.
We're just going to have another $170 billion deficit.
That corresponds to about four million jobs.
The economy is good, but the economy isn't going to be good because we've been living on consumer.
So there are obviously some loose ends that you would have liked to have tied up before you went.
Oh, I wouldn't.
People say to me, hey, do you miss it?
Oh, I miss it every day.
I had my staff around.
I had my briefings.
I went there.
Everything was going from the State Department of Foreign Affairs, Domestic Affairs.
I was briefed.
a week or whenever I was invited there.
I always called the State, what I could call the Secretary of State, Department of Defense, Weinberger, Schultz.
I'd like to go over the office to briefing.
And I had a very excellent, capable young staff.
And I was the one that made decisions, and I was at my own caucus and my own policy committee and my own whip organization.
It's hard just to walk away from the scene after 50 years, but things are going pretty good.
You miss it.
You know the interesting thing, my Millie is a terrific person.
I retired and we have a condo down in Sumner, right out in about seven miles from the White House, in Maryland.
And I would get up in the morning, pick up a post at the door, put up my brass rope and have a cup of coffee, sit around the house, you know.
She said, listen, where's the papers?
I can't say, take a shower, shave, get dressed again, get the paper, I'll have breakfast when you come back.
He said, get yourself an office downtown.
I'm not going to make lunch for you.
I never made lunch for you in 46 years.
I'm not going to start now.
You'll become an old man.
I want you to get out there.
Go out and make speeches and talk to students and get out there and get yourself free.
You can keep yourself a lift, which I've been doing.
So maybe it begs the question, why did you retire?
You're still a viper.
Well, one of the reasons I retired is when Millie and I were sitting around one night, you know, you're speaking right here.
She said, you know, you always had a vision for the job yourself.
Oh, Sam Rayman was Speaker for 16 years.
McComick was Majority Leader for 16 years and Speaker for nine years.
He used to say, when are those people going to give a young fellow a chance?
You know, you've been whipped for two years, Majority Leader for four, Speaker for 16 years.
You were Chairman of the Democratic Congressional Committee.
When are you going to get out and give a young fellow a chance?
Okay, honey.
I'll announce tomorrow one more term and we're through.
And it gave you a nice, neat 50 years.
No, it gave me 50 years, but not only that, I got on my own terms.
I was still stronger than my party.
My image was higher than I'd ever been.
I wouldn't have had any problems getting elected in my history.
I could have been re-elected as Speaker.
But I took the right time.
Like Ted Williams go out as a champ, right?
Never forget that October.
ball that he ever hit right over the fence.
That's the way to go.
Go out a winner.
I have one more question to ask you, and I know I don't want to overstay my welcome.
I've read two books.
Maybe I'll put it here.
My fellow who's reviewing this book for me, his name is Dick Hapey, and he just watched it.
He heard an anecdote, and he doesn't think it's in the book.
Yeah.
And it's about how you and Don Regan are both from Cambridge, and you ran into him one day and said, your cousin Agnes.
Oh, that's in the book.
That's in the book?
He said he couldn't find it.
Well, yeah, that's in the book.
I say in the book, every time I'd see Don Reagan, I'd always say, hey, your cousin's from home.
How about so-and-so?
Yeah, he probably hasn't finished the book.
Yeah, it's in there somewhere.
I'm pretty sure it is.
We'll leave it there.
But that anecdote is straight, right?
Cousin Rose.
As a matter of fact, the funny thing, who do you think came into the coop yesterday?
I signed a book for Cousin Rose yesterday in the Harvard coop.
And she says to me, Tip, we're proud of my cousin, Don.
But she says, we're still Tip O'Neill Democrats.
Two fast questions.
The president you've known personally who you respect the most, Harry Truman, I think.
Well, I love Jack Kennedy, of course.
You know what I mean?
He had a thousand days, and it's hard to assess a record.
But he did so much for the world.
Respect in terms of political accomplishments.
His greatest things, of course, was
the Cuban crisis, get your missiles out of there, number one.
And two was the Berlin Waller.
But he was so handsome and so articulate, he drew people all around the world into new governments.
He did a fantastic job.
But when you look at the record, how Harry was demeaned by old Harry Truman, how he was hated in America, how he couldn't have won for re-election, so people thought, but they thought, oh, Vladimir 48,
But the record was that he saved Greece from communism.
He saved Italy from communism, responsible for the march of France.
The buck stops here.
He determined what you were going to do.
He dropped the atom bomb, saved 10 million American lives and allied lives, and stopped the war.
He moved into Korea.
He had guts.
You know, he's probably the last of the fellows, the last person we ever had who wasn't a college graduate.
But he had the insight, and he had the guts, and he had the streetcar knowledge, and he had the savages.
And boy, he did what was absolutely right.
And he grows and grows and grows.
And you look at our economy.
We're having problems right there now with trade.
For 50 years, you know, when the war was over, we were the only nation of the world that was unscathed.
Our industrial complex was still moving.
Our agricultural plants, we fed the world.
We traded with everybody.
We lived off the rest of the world while we developed it.
We lived off the rest of the world, and all of that was Harry's ideas and thoughts.
The brainy people who came to him, the buck stops here, I make the decision, I don't delegate the decision to anybody, I make the decision, this is what we're going to do.
And he looks greater and greater and greater in history.
And one last question.
How do I put it?
You have been a witness to 25% of our history.
I know, I know the license government.
That's kind of a rare privilege, isn't it?
It really is.
And I just wondered if you could give me a brief introduction.
You know, the interesting thing, I met Coolidge, when Coolidge was governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
I met him in the Quincy House on my ninth birthday.
And I never did meet Harding.
And I met Hoover, I don't know how many times.
And from then on, I've known every president.
I know Roosevelt.
That's a great story.
She took you in the White House.
And so I've known every one of them all the way along the line, and it's quite a part of history that I've played.
When I try to write the book, you know, Jerry Ford wrote a book, Kissinger wrote a book, Carter wrote a book, Nixon wrote a book.
And I said, hey, I'm going to write a book.
And I'm not going to give the details of how legislation was passed or what was in a bill or things like that.
I'm going to give them a general complex of how America was when I was a kid and I get into public life.
what the ethics of politics was, what America was like, how the changes have come, how you accomplish things in the back room, and how great the government has been, because it responds to the people.
The government is not the enemy of the people.
The Congress is not the enemy of the people.
Under a democracy, democracy works.
The government responds to people, and that's why we have such a tremendous... And also, you made it very readable by throwing in some great stories.
That's pretty important, too, I think.
All right.